---
layout: post
title: I survived the 30 day blog fitness challenge
date: '2011-08-09T23:16:00.000-07:00'
author: Yevgeniy Brikman
tags:
- Writing
modified_time: '2015-03-28T13:23:15.554-07:00'
thumbnail_path: blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/traffic-spike.png
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5422014336627804072.post-3748956628180004428
blogger_orig_url: http://brikis98.blogspot.com/2011/08/i-survived-30-day-blog-fitness.html
---

On July 7, [Adam Nash](http://www.linkedin.com/in/adamnash), [Mario 
Sundar](http://www.linkedin.com/in/mariosundar) and 
[I](http://www.linkedin.com/in/jbrikman) started the [30 day blog fitness 
challenge](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/07/30-day-blog-fitness-challenge/). 
Today, I write my 30th blog post. For those of you keeping score at home, 
today is actually August 9th, so it took slightly longer than 30 days. Oh 
well, I'm just happy I made it. 

To get here, I wrote about [how much I suck at 
programming](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/08/programming-lessons-i-wish-i-knew-when/), 
[the 
apocalypse](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/12/obsessed-with-apocalypse/), 
[pulling all-nighters 
hacking](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/31/up-all-night-linkedin-intern-hackday/), 
and 
[doppelg√§ngers](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/20/travel-quirks-part-3-sculpture-animals/). 
Occasionally, I resorted to posts that were almost entirely [travel 
photos](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/27/down-in-salt-mines/); at 
other times, [I down right 
cheated](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/29/worth-watching-pale-blue-dot/). 
After one month, I managed to nearly double the number of posts in my 4 year 
old blog. 

Let's take a look at the impact this had. 

## Traffic spike

{% include figure.html path="blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/traffic-spike.png" alt="Traffic spike" %}

Not many people read my blog. Or at least, they didn't, until shortly  after 
this blog fitness challenge started on July 7. Since then, I've  had far more 
traffic than usual; the absolute numbers are still nothing impressive, but 
it's a ~10x improvement over just about all previous months. I've only seen 
spikes in traffic like this twice: the most recent was from the "[This is 
where I work](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/04/01/this-is-where-i-work/)" 
post, thanks to [Jeff Weiner](http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffweiner08)  and 
other LinkedIn folks sharing it all over the place. As popular  as that post 
was, it's only #2 all time. Can anyone guess what's #1? 

## Who's reading this stuff?

{% include figure.html path="blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/pageviews-by-countries.png" alt="Page views by country" %}

{% include figure.html path="blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/pageviews-by-browser.png" alt="Page views by browser" %}

No surprises there: hello co-workers at LinkedIn! Thanks for  stopping by. I 
must say that not only are you all good looking, but you  also have great 
taste, both in blogs and in browsers. Seeing Internet  Explorer at less than 
9% of traffic makes me very happy. In fact, mobile traffic to my blog beats IE 
by 3%. Sweet! 

## Blog driven development

When you know you have to write a blog post every night, you start seeing the 
world a little differently. Every time I had an interesting thought, read a 
fascinating article or learned something new, I'd wonder if I could blog about 
it. Of course, being [obsessed with 
lists](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/23/obsessed-with-lists-how-i-organize-my/), 
I'd write each of these ideas down in a Google Doc. The list is to 64 items 
now, half of which I wrote about in the last month and half of which are left 
over for future blogging. 

One of the interesting results from this sort of thinking is what Adam 
described as "blog driven development". That is, when you start working on a 
new project, try to image out what the blog post will look like from day one. 
What will the title be? What are the 3-5 major points you'll highlight? What 
screenshots or media will you include? Working through these issues right up 
front is a powerful way to identify what's truly important for your project 
and can make it easier to prioritize and make good trade-offs. 

## Communication skillz

{% include figure.html path="blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/dilbert.gif" alt="Dilbert" url="http://dilbert.com/strip/2008-06-07" %}

You know that whole communication thing they told you about in college? Turns 
out it really does matter. You see, software engineering [involves far more 
than just writing 
code](http://codedependents.com/2011/06/06/software-development-is-not-just-coding/) 
(although writing clean code is all about *communicating* your intent to other 
programmers). I spend a lot of my time at work discussing and debating ideas 
with co-workers, writing emails, IMing, filing bug reports, creating wiki 
pages, writing documentation, and putting together presentations. I've also 
become the editor for the [LinkedIn Engineering 
Blog](http://engineering.linkedin.com/blog), which means I not only [write my 
own entries](http://engineering.linkedin.com/34/play-framework-and-async-io), 
I also help other people write theirs. 

The 30 day blog challenge proved to be a wonderful training ground for this 
role. Knowing I had to write an entry every night, regardless of how crazy my 
schedule was, taught me to write quickly, edit mercilessly, and just get 
things done. I've still got plenty to learn, but practice definitely makes 
perfect. 

## New discoveries, new code

One of the delights of having a public blog are the times when someone 
responds to your writing.  There's a narcissistic component to it, but far 
more importantly, you often learn something from the replies. I got some 
[great reading 
recommendations](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/12/obsessed-with-apocalypse/) 
in one post, got in touch with several friends and co-workers who are 
interested in Crossfit from [another 
post](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/08/02/in-case-you-missed-it-epic-2011/), 
and even had [one of my project 
ideas](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2011/07/26/proposal-extend-markdown-syntax-to/) 
that I hadn't had time to work on implemented for me as an [open source 
project](https://github.com/maleldil/wmd). How cool is that? 

## Time for a break

{% include figure.html path="blog/30-day-fitness-challenge/tired.jpg" alt="Time for a break" %}

The 30 day blog fitness challenge was awesome. Kudos to Adam and Mario for 
suggesting it. Having said that, I'm pretty tired. I think it's time for a bit 
of a break to recharge and recover. But I'll be back soon. Got something you 
want me to write about? Let me know in the comments :) 
