---
layout: post
title: The Saga Of The Stank
date: '2014-07-15T16:28:00.001-07:00'
author: Yevgeniy Brikman
tags:
- Home
- Humor
modified_time: '2014-07-15T16:49:18.647-07:00'
thumbnail_path: blog/stank/seven.jpg
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5422014336627804072.post-6209159407511361752
blogger_orig_url: http://brikis98.blogspot.com/2014/07/the-saga-of-stank.html
---

My hand is over my mouth, my eyes are watering, and I'm trying to hold my 
breath, but every few seconds, my throat tries to turn itself inside out. Most 
smells, after a little while, fade into the background&mdash;you become 
desensitized and can no longer detect them. But not this smell. You remember 
the [sloth scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F7J02CRoYUk&amp;feature=kp) 
from [Se7en](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114369/)? The one where the cops, 
handkerchiefs over their mouths, walk into a room that has hundreds of Little 
Tree car air fresheners hanging from the ceiling and find a guy who has been 
chained to a bed for a year, living in his own waste while his body rotted 
away? It was like that. Minus the air fresheners. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/seven.jpg" alt="Se7en" url="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114369/" %}
 
A week ago, Molly and I had entered our apartment for the first time after a 
month and a half of traveling. We had been to the 
[Philippines](https://plus.google.com/photos/+YevgeniyBrikman/albums/6030165086564902337?banner=pwa), 
[Thailand](https://plus.google.com/photos/+YevgeniyBrikman/albums/6030178881144432849?banner=pwa), 
Boston, and were finally home, after a long flight. It was nearly midnight and 
all I wanted to do was bury my face in a pillow, cocoon myself in a blanket, 
and breath in my bed, which smells like sleep. Instead, I found myself 
breathing in noxious fumes. Which smell like noxious fumes. 

Molly's first guess was that we had forgotten to take out the trash, but when 
we checked, it was empty. I looked for anything rotting in the sink, but it 
was spotless. Molly cracked open the fridge&mdash;also empty. However, as she 
closed the refrigerator door, it pushed some air out of the fridge and in our 
direction. A second later, a wave of warm, putrid shit smelling foulness 
washed over us. 

"Oh dear, we've got to deal with this", I said. Or maybe it was something more 
along the lines of "Oh Jesus fuck what the shit is that???" 

I readied myself and peeled the fridge door open again and peered around. We 
had eaten or thrown out all the food before leaving on vacation, so the 
shelves were empty. All that remained were a few crumbs and stains. And yet, a 
cloud of corruption was flooding out of the fridge -- I swear I could see 
green stink lines. 

"We've got to clean this up", I said. Molly suggests it was more like "Oh come 
on! Why the... what is the... what the fuck is that goddamn smell???" It was 
go time. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/green-smoke.jpg" caption="Approximate re-enactment of me approaching the fridge" %}

Molly and I began pulling out the shelves and drawers 
and washing them. The fumes of&mdash;what was it? Rotten eggs and a dead skunk 
floating in a bath of spoiled milk?&mdash;continued to waft through the 
apartment. We were finally on the last shelf when I randomly decided to peer 
into the freezer. Although the fridge was empty, we had left the freezer 
running to preserve frozen goods and various condiments. I peered around and 
saw a package of ravioli, a bag of Ikea meatballs, a bottle of maple syrup, 
some pink liquid, and then, wait a second, on the door... Oh god, what the 
hell was that?? 

I slammed the freezer door shut. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/alien-egg.jpg" caption="The creature I thought I had seen on my freezer door" url="http://aliens.wikia.com/wiki/Facehugger" %}

My brain was still processing what I had seen. Unfortunately, 
shutting the freezer door had pushed out a new cloud of noxious gas that 
nearly knocked me unconscious. As I came to, I began to wonder: why did the 
freezer smell worse than the fridge? Why was there an Alien facehugger on my 
freezer door? But most of all, I couldn't get out of my mind the pink liquid 
in the freezer. 

Wait a minute, why was there *liquid* in my freezer? 

I took a peek at the controls in the fridge: 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/fridge.png" alt="The fridge controls" %}
 
Pop quiz: what happens if you leave the freezer setting at "4", but turn the 
refrigerator setting to "off"? Did you say that *both *the freezer and 
refrigerator shut off? Because that's exactly what happened. For the entire 
time we were traveling. That's 1.5 months. 

For six weeks, some monstrosity had been stewing, growing, incubating in my 
freezer. We had been scrubbing the refrigerator shelves, but all this time, 
the real evil lay quietly above. But what was it? What fiend lay in waiting? 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/whats-in-the-box.jpg" alt="What's in the box?" %}

I had to know. But I didn't want to know. Molly and I stared at each other. 
Our imaginations danced. Within the freezer, there lurked unknown dangers, and 
I felt naked. Actually, I was mostly naked, because I had stripped down after 
noticing that the putrid smell was getting in my clothes. I searched the house 
for some protection and found... a single glove. Not zero, not two, but one 
glove. Seriously, I don't understand why you would have just a single rubber 
glove, but there you have it. It was purple. 

I also found a bottle of Lysol, but it was almost empty. So there I was, 
wearing a pair of boxers and a single rubber glove, holding a bottle of Lysol, 
heading into the den of a dragon that could peel the armor off an Abrams tank 
with a single breath. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/don-quixote.jpg" alt="Don Quixote" %}

I closed my eyes and pulled at the freezer door. As it swung open, I caught 
sight of a pint of Ben and Jerry's ice cream that had transformed into a 
Xenomorph egg. No, that's not right. The ice cream had spawned a huge blob of 
mold that tore through the lid and crawled, stretched, and oozed its fuzzy 
blue green body up the freezer door. I brought the lysol up, took aim... but I 
was too late. As the door swung a bit further, the full power of the smell hit 
me. 

Later, when I told this story to my sister, she asked why I didn't take a 
picture of the mold. The answer is that this was not mold. This was biological 
warfare, a weapon of mass destruction, the poison gas from the Hunger Games 
that causes your skin to burst into boils on contact. As the toxic cloud 
washed over me, it was as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in 
terror... and then farted. A smell so foul that we gave it a name: it became 
known as *The Stank*. This was no time for selfies. 

My senses returned to me and I went to war. With one hand, I shoveled all the 
food left in the freezer into the trash. With the other, I began spraying with 
lysol. And I kept spraying. And spraying. And spraying. And spraying some 
more. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/predator-minigun.gif" caption="A reenactment of our battle against The Stank." %}

Finally, the bottle was empty. Now, the hard part. I had to 
wipe it all down. That meant reaching my hand - the one gloved hand - into The 
Stank. This had all the appeal of reaching straight into Satan's asshole. 

I don't really remember what happened next. Somehow, hours later, I was 
huddled in corner of the shower, knees pressed to my chest. No amount of soap 
could wash out The Stank. 

But our battle was not finished. The next day, the freezer still smelled 
horrible. We washed everything with soap and water. Then we tried baking soda 
and water. Then vinegar and water. Then we realized it isn't a great idea to 
mix baking soda and vinegar, unless, of course, you're trying to create a 
[volcano](http://chemistry.about.com/cs/howtos/ht/buildavolcano.htm) for your 
4th grade science fair. 

The next day, the smell was still there. We went out and bought an anti-mold 
spray that contained bleach. We filled the fridge and freezer with the stuff 
and let the chlorine gas waft through it. It didn't help. 

Then we filled the fridge with smell absorbers: baking soda, charcoal, coffee 
grinds, oatmeal. We packed plates, bowls, and cookie trays full of the stuff 
and arranged it in the fridge. It looked like an altar of offerings to a 
vengeful god. It was our tribute to The Stank. It was not enough. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/fight-club-plane.gif" alt="If you wake up at a different time in a different place, could you wake up as a different person?" %}

Worse yet, The Stank followed us. A smell that powerful doesn't just go away 
when you leave the house. You begin to imagine The Stank everywhere you go. 
The funky cheese at the fancy restaurant reminds you of The Stank; the 
bathroom at the library smells of Stank; does that guy on the treadmill have 
terrible body odor or is that The Stank too? Wait, do *I* smell like The 
Stank? Have I *become* The Stank? 

We spent a full week trying every remedy imaginable. We took out shelves, we 
unscrewed panels, we scrubbed, wiped, sprayed, brushed, and polished every 
surface. Every visible inch of the fridge became a shiny, unnatural white. But 
despite it all, The Stank remained. 

Finally, today, we ordered a new fridge. The Stank won. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/stank/revolver.jpg" alt="One shot revolver" %}

So, kids, here's the moral of the story: 

1. **Fuck the environment**. We tried to be green&mdash;to save a little energy 
by shutting off the fridge during our trip. In return, we got The Stank. In 
fact, once you factor in all the chemical cleaning products, the rolls of 
paper towels, the years of our lives lost breathing in spores and cleaning 
agents, and the need to buy and ship a new fridge, I'm not entirely convinced 
our conservation efforts paid off. 
1. **Fuck bad design**. If your fridge has separate control knobs for the 
fridge and freezer, perhaps they should really be separate? [Learn 
design](http://www.amazon.com/Design-Everyday-Things-Donald-Norman/dp/0465067107), 
learn the [principle of least 
surprise](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment), and 
[don't make me 
think](http://www.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Me-Think-Usability/dp/0321344758). 